---
layout: post
title: A Peek of the Thesis
tags: 学术之路
excerpt: A Peek of the Thesis.
---

This paper is a general study of the nature of law, using the concept of legal validity as an entry point. The intent of this study is to show that the concept of legal validity, occuping a central place in our concept of law and legal practice, is the most important part of our concept of law, and the most important device of our legal practice, thus is the most crucial concept for understanding the nature of law.

In order to explain law, it is necessary to explain the "space of legal validity" in which we live. This space has a specific structure and pattern that presents different pictures to people who are in different positions in the space and take different perspectives. These people are both ordinary people, officials, and legal philosophers.

On the one hand, ordinary people's notion of legal validity expresses both factual and normative meanings; to say that a rule is legally in their view means, on the one hand, the existence of a social fact, i.e., officials generally say that the rule is legally valid, and on the other hand, the validity of a normative claim, i.e., the above fact provides them with an independent reason for action. The phenomenon that some people in society actually *say so*, and that all people should *do so*, and this transition between fact and norm, is a legal phenomenon, as distinct from a moral one. This experience of legal validity, which transitions between *existence* and *validity*, is our experience of law, as distinct from moral experience, and the political-moral practices of officials, or the political superior, are its immediate cause.

On the other hand, legal positivists try to stand outside the whole space, capturing the above structures and patterns and trying to find their external constraints, while anti-positivists insist on standing within the space and seeing their own theories as an inseparable part of legal practice. This has led to their different caricatures of both the legal concepts and legal practices of ordinary people and officials within the space of legal validity, resulting in different legal pictures.

The significance of this study is to present a slightly novel perspective on the key differences between legal positivism and anti-positivism, to illustrate the limits of the former's theoretical correctness, to criticize its current overly strong metaphysical tendencies, and to appreciate the latter's key limitations on the former's theory. Legal positivism reveals more clearly than any previous school of legal theory the general structure of legal concepts and legal phenomena, but the attempt to treat law as a type, that is, the attempt to treat law as a phenomenon with a particular structure and pattern in the universe and to find more external constraints for it, will gradually move legal philosophy away from political philosophy, which is a study of the immediate causes of the space of legal validity --- the political-moral practices of the politically superior --- and increasingly tends to contemporary practical philosophy, meta-ethics, philosophy of action, philosophy of language, and even philosophy of mind, making the philosophy of law refined and impoverished.

In terms of specific arguments, this paper reconstructs the legal picture of legal positivism, reveals the beyond, the mediating, and the empirical theses it contains, and contrasts its conceptual approach with the interpretive approach of anti-positivism. The discussion is organized around three issues: conceptual, phenomenal, and practical, in four parts as follows.

Part I, that is, Chapters 1-4, reconstructs the legal picture of legal positivism. First, Chapter 1 composes and reconstructs three theses and general structures that were already present in the early legal positivist tradition. The three theses are the beyond, the mediating, and the empirical theses. Law is the practice of seeking beyond universal guidances; beyond universal guidance are not directly obtainable and requires factual mediation; and large-scale, sustained, and successful coercive orders are more likely to be the right response to beyond universal guidances, and thus norms should be inquired into through facts. The general structure is said to be that legal systems have a double heterogeneous structure. Chapter 2, econstructing and expanding in detail the legal genealogy in Hart's theory of social rules, then shows how the transition between the "existence" and "validity" of rules constitutes a relatively closed space of legal validity, resulting in a legal system with a double heterogeneous structure, in which the interior consists of  normative statements and the periphery consists of the facts of social rules. Chapter 3 then shows that Hart's legal picture allows for both factual and normative significance of validity statements, but argues that the normative significance of validity statements cannot be explained by linking them only to rules of recognition, and that a causal account of them is needed instead. Chapter 4 then returns to the early legal positivist tradition by broadening Austin's legal picture, restoring sanctions to their key place in the legal picture, and treating the political-moral practices of the political superior as the reasons behind the rules of recognition.

Part II, Chapter 5, provides a philosophical account of this legal picture, showing why legal positivism is a conceptual approach, that is, insisting that law is a type and that legal practice is the practice of using legal concepts to identify law, the facts that equate with the existence of the law in a society are as well as the facts that are used by members of the society to identify specific laws. The phenomenon of law is seen as a phenomenon with a particular structure and pattern in the universe: inside it, the facts of the grounded social rules determine the facts of the legal content; outside it, there are further constraints on this metaphysical determination relation.



Part III, Chapter 6, examines the comprehensive refutation of the positivist's conceptual approach by the anti-positivist Dworkin's interpretive approach. Law is not a type, legal practice is not a practice of using legal concepts to identify law, and legal theory is not an external description of legal practice.

Part IV, Chapter 7, discusses the metaphysical tendency of present-day mainstream positivists and some anti-positivists, that is, the tendency to inquire into the external constraints on the metaphysical determinations of the relationship between the social facts and the legal facts. This will lead legal philosophy to contemporary practical philosophy, meta-ethics, philosophy of action, and even philosophy of mind, moving further and further away from political philosophy and making legal philosophy refined and impoverished.

Part V, i.e., Chapter 8, examines the core arguments of this paper by discussing some relatively concrete legal issues.

The Introduction delivers the problem awareness, fundamental theses and basic propositions, and line planning of the paper through a fictional story. The Conclusion provides a careful summary of the basic ideas of the whole paper.

Through the above exposition, the paper attempts to make a new claim: that **law is an artificial norm**, and that the political-moral practice of the political superior makes its system of normative statements universally actualized, thus creating a space of legal validity in which the normative experience of people living in it is not directly linked to the normativity envisaged by some philosophers, but to the political-moral practices of the political superior. As a result, this normative experience should be appropriately called the validity experience. Eventually, **legal validity is an artificial normativity**.